---
layout: post
title: MaSSP Vietnam
thumbnail: images/trampic/massplogo.jpg
---

# My Involvement with MaSSP Vietnam


Last winter, I came across a recruitment message for open positions at [Math and Science Summer Program (MaSSP)](https://www.masspvn.com/). I have always wanted to be involved in something that gives back to Vietnam and help younger students, so I did not hesitate to apply for a logistics position.

Not long after, I received an email explaining why it was necessary that this position would require a candidate to be in Vietnam, and encouraging me to apply to be a headmentor for the Data Science subject. I never thought I was qualified for this position to apply, but I challenged myself and put together a proposal to apply anyway.

At the time, I recently ventured into Data Science and Machine Learning from a project that I did at school, so I gathered everything I knew about ML to make that proposal. Though I couldn't go to Vietnam for the camp this year, I still decided to stay with the program and help out, and it was one of the best decision I have ever made. Let me explain why:

__1. Collaboration and Management__

As the headmentor of Data Science, I helped chị Châu - the Academic Advisor of MaSSP, recruited other mentors for Data Science by writing up a job descriptions, scheduling and interviewing candidates.

Since we have the final list of DS mentors, we started to have weekly meeting to update each other on the progress of MaSSP as well as our lessons planned. After MaSSP closed the applications for high school students, we also divided questions to selected students as well.

Throughout the preparation and the duration of the program, I learned so much about managing tasks, helping everyone on the DS team, and making sure everyone is on the same page and enjoy their summer. This experience helped me realize how much I love working with others to achieve a common goal, and it was so rewarding when we can see the impacts on MaSSP DS students.


__2. Teaching__

Talking about students, I really enjoy teaching and interacting with MaSSP students as well. Though I only had a chance to teach one class, and only interacted with Data Science students, I love every moment of it.

I think what is the most rewarding part of teaching is that I am also learning. I not only learned from the mentors I was working with to get the lessons going, but also the students. How they were so curious about everything, a new perspective they offer when looking at a problem, or the positive energy that spread to me.

I used to love teaching, and this experience has reinforced my passion for teaching. I want to keep nurturing this passion, so that maybe one day, I am prepared enough to make it my career.


__3. Compassion__

It is hard to believe how much I have learned through an online project that I didn't get a chance to see how it unfolded in action, but I really did learn a lot. One of the most important thing is compassion. I can feel compassion from every single member of MaSSP, from the Organizers, to mentors and to its students.

Thank you MaSSP Organizers for putting together this amazing camp for high school students, allowing them to learn hands-on skill set. They were Vietnamese students studying in the US, and they all have their daytime jobs and everything, but they chose to put a portion of their time into this, to help others, and bring people together.

Thank you for MaSSP DS mentors for showing me your compassion for the younger generations, and help me realize that "if we want to fast, go alone, but if we want to go far, we go together". I am forever grateful that I got to work with such a great groups of people like you, and I look forward to our next projects together.

* For more information about MaSSP, visit [https://www.masspvn.com/](https://www.masspvn.com/)

"MaSSP stands for Math and Science Summer Program. Our mission is to provide Vietnamese high school students, especially those from underprivileged backgrounds, with opportunities to explore applications of mathematics and science. In addition, students learn how to conduct research appropriately, think computationally, and communicate science effectively."
